she was cuddling on the couch with
William the young woman is not cuddling
up with the man in this picture she is
in fact sitting as far away from him on
the couch as is humanly possible and she
doesn't look happy she's not flirting
with him she's not cuddling up with him
right she looks pissed off V Gaines
insists on describing this as her
cuddling up with him but what's even
more telling is that richard is
implicitly lying to you because he
pretends that she hasn't addressed this
she replies explaining really what you
can see in the photo itself she's not
cuddling up with him on the couch it's
just not true this is an 18 year old
Mexican girl telling him directly she
did consent to kissing she didn't
consent to vaginal sex she didn't
consent to anal sex there are some guys
in some cultures who take the attitude
oh if you open the door a crack I'm
gonna put my foot in the door and I'm
gonna push the door the rest of the way
open okay well if you do that if if
that's how you play the game the game of
love you will end up in horrible
situations like William that you'll
regret for the rest of your life if
you're not a complete jackass and that
the woman will regret for the rest of
her life so don't do it don't take that
attitude
we're talking about sex and
self-awareness and cultural differences
here clashes between mutually
incomprehensible cultures a lot of deep
topics to cover and what could be a
shallow and Cadi video richard was
pretty honest and open about his sex
life his sexual history four or five
years ago he was pretty honest and open
about the fact that before he met his
wife the woman he married he really had
no experience with conventional
relationships with conventional dating
he even stated publicly none of this was
private he stated publicly many times
that he had no interest in conventional
sex period if you guys have been
following his YouTube channel for long
time you can remember him stating
bluntly and angrily that he had no
interest in vaginal intercourse I'm just
gonna give him credit for that earlier
period on his YouTube channel because in
general I think back then he was being
as honest as he could you know and now
frankly he's being dishonest with
himself as well as being dishonest with
his audience she won't provide evidence
for any of these claims William on the
other hand he was actually able to
provide photographic and video evidence
you know strongly suggesting that they
were having a normal consensual
relationship during this time and
actually the photo and video that I'm
posting on screen right now this was
taken after Adriana claims that William
anally raped her so it doesn't sound
very likely that Adriana was anally
raped and then literally the day after
she was cuddling on the couch with
William and a few days later just
getting drunk at a bar having a grand
old time with the rapist who anally
raped her it's deeply dishonest to say
as he says that this is a picture of the
two people cuddling up on the couch she
was cuddling on the couch with will
right he says that repeatedly as a
self-evident fact he's being dishonestly
for one thing you just look at the
picture the young woman is not cuddling
up with the man in this picture right
and he's a short guy but still she is in
fact sitting as far away from him on the
couch as is humanly possible and again
this guy I've seen photographs of him
I've seen a footer of him standing next
to Wayne's young and he looks like he's
half a foot shorter than Wayne so he's a
short guy but he has stretched out the
full length of his legs and looks like
his torso also along the length of this
couch they are as far apart as they can
possibly be
but vegan gains says to you the audience
that this is proof of them cuddling up
together
she was cuddling on the couch with
William and by the way in terms of the
narrative we know they're not alone
there are at least two other people in
this apartment with them this
temporarily rented apartment so this is
a room where there were probably two or
three other adults in the room and she's
sitting as far away from him as she can
he's all the way stretched out and she
doesn't look happy she's not flirting
with him she's not cuddling up with him
right she looks pissed off but she has
her hand over the foot that it's nothing
flirtatious but this vegans insists on
describing this as her cuddling up with
him but what's even more telling is that
Richard is implicitly lying to you
because he pretends that she hasn't
addressed this now some of the
discussion of this controversy on the
Internet has been in French but the
woman in the picture she addressed this
in English and her reply to it was
posted on the Internet in many places we
can be certain Richard saw it
including Williams own website Williams
set up a website to clear his name argue
us out of the case okay so Richard is
again concealing
something from you the audience he's
either being dishonest with you or I
think more likely he's being dishonest
with himself quote can you also explain
this photo and she replies explaining
really what you can see in the photo
itself she's not cuddling up with him on
the couch it's just not true you can
read this in full yourself you want to
and she just says she was uncomfortable
and she was with a team of people
working on this animal rights project
and she didn't know what to do and if
you jump down to the bold text at the
bottom of the screen shot here this is
what I think is most interesting and
most telling and again Richard just does
not have the depth of experience nor the
capacity for compassion that's required
to appreciate this she says here the
only thing that she said yes to was
kissing that's not a pass for touching
my body seriously though I don't know if
there's something in French culture that
makes you think you have power over
people's bodies okay now look I actually
don't think the crucial issue here is
the age gap issue okay is it 18 year old
girl from Mexico 18 year old adult woman
whatever you want to say 18 okay you can
be in this same kind of situation with a
30 year old woman it happens you can be
in this case there are really serious
cultural differences not just
differences in terms of age where look I
used to be married to a French woman I
have experience in France with French
culture there are some cultures where if
you consent to kissing that is going to
be interpreted as consent to go all the
way and there's some cultures where
that's not true at all
where it's normal to just consent to
kissing or just consent to cuddling or
just consent to oral sex just consent to
going halfway I mean in English we have
these phrases like first base to second
base and even just within Europe
it can be very difficult to negotiate
even explicitly and sympathetically what
those boundaries and barriers and
degrees of commitment are degrees of of
consent are like what do you consider in
some cultures if you consent to go into
someone's apartment like that's it
that's consent for sex and in some
that's not true at all it's like well
you agreed to go to the apartment but
that just means you're gonna drink
coffee and talk I was learning to be an
English teacher I was taking formal
classes in the teaching of English okay
where I was getting qualified to be a
language teacher and there was a woman
who worked at the front desk I assumed
she was a receptionist of that special
Institute special language training
facility and if she were your type she
would be a perfect ten she had a very
round face and she had enormous breasts
and her job as a receptionist every day
she wore really revealing really
provocative outfits that really showed
off her breasts I mean I would show up
in that place and that was not on my
mind like I wasn't into it or whatever
and often I'd kind of walk in and go
past the desk to the classroom or go to
the office to talk to the manager the
the owner I guess whatever the guy who
was in charge and still in that few
seconds walking by you think well that
was not what I was expecting to see it
was stimulating it I think it had a
shocking effect on most of the
heterosexual men in that building not
everybody's type but if she were your
type that will never be a perfect tan
she was stunningly beautiful in her way
there were a lot of immigrants from the
Muslim world coming into that language
institute to learn English or improve
their English okay and she would respond
to these guys hitting on her and like
some of these guys they were like
conservative Muslims or they were
straight up proposing marriage
respective like these were guys who you
know they don't drink alcohol they don't
have sex out of marriage and they meet
this woman and they're like hey I can
introduce you to my grandparents and we
can and again he'll really blame them
her way of responding to this I mean I
wouldn't even call it flirting her way
of responding to these propositions of
proposals was to kind of bat her eyes
look down and say oh well you know I'm
busy you know she would be kind of
evasive and flirtatious and I think I
think she was flattered I think she
enjoyed the attention and she kind of
encouraged it but she would kind of
English would say she she would demure
or something I don't know but a lot of
those guys they interpreted this just as
encouragement like wow they need to try
harder they need to be more assertive
than he to you know they need to really
propose marriage and once I wanted the
office of the guy in charge it was I
guess the owner and principal or manager
whatever the guy was in charge of
Institute and he described to me how he
took one of these guys aside who was
really being more assertive flirting
with her hitting on the the receptionist
and he said to her you know she's
married and the guy was devastated not
devastated because he was in love with
this girl he was devastated because in
terms of his cultural values he regarded
himself as having committed a terrible
evil offense and he had no idea and he
said why didn't she tell me she was
married like why did she from his
perspective she flirted with him in a
cruise like it was mind-blowing to him
because he had never dealt with that
cultural barrier before he had no idea
that like a white english-speaking woman
might respond in this kind of evasive
flirty flattered way if she were married
from his perspective he had committed a
serious offense against her he had
committed a serious offense against her
husband like he thought her husband
might want revenge on him like if the
husband found out if she told her
husband that her husband might want to
beat him up or something and he felt he
was a religious guy he felt he had
committed an offense against God and he
should like pray for forgiveness kind of
thing you know again I don't even
which Muslim subculture that guy was
from but you can imagine crossing over
these cultural barriers is in many ways
more difficult than the barrier between
an 18 year old and a 30 year old like
the age gap barrier if it's within the
same culture and within the same
language okay this is an 18 year old
Mexican girl telling you directly she
did consent to kissing she didn't
consent to vaginal sex she didn't
consent to anal sex and that this
photograph he does not show them
cuddling up on the couch this is
consistent with her story and let's be
clear she is not the best advocate
possible for her own story she's not a
lawyer she's not terribly sophisticated
or worldly herself she's not a great
philosopher I mean look I don't come on
the internet and give you my analysis of
which athletes are and are not using
steroids and performance-enhancing drugs
not my area of expertise not my area of
experience I have the self-knowledge and
self-awareness to say I would not be
terribly good at that all right
that's what Richard does that's vegan
gains his area of expertise he should
have the self-awareness that he is so
far out of his strike zone so far
outside of his area of expertise so far
outside of what he should feel
comfortable passing judgment on in this
area that he's kind of dead wrong no
matter what he says he's gonna make an
ass of himself but he seems to lack that
self-awareness okay but we can also say
that the young woman at age 18 what
should we expect from her and what can
she expect from herself she obviously
lacks the kind of experience the kind of
expertise to do a good job in arguing
her own case in this circumstance okay
so I mean when Richard complains oh well
like there are inconsistencies there are
problems here yeah she writes about this
the way you would expect
emotionally damaged brokenhearted
resentful eighteen-year-old mexican girl
to write about it she doesn't do a good
job argument case I'm not saying you
know the fact that Williams case better
doesn't mean he's right in many many
ways morally that guy is still in the
wrong he should be capable of looking
back at this and really regretting what
happened okay and again Richard you are
just the wrong dude to weigh in on this
in so many ways and for so many reasons
you don't know what it's like you don't
have any experience on either side of
this issue with seducing women dating
women sleeping with women and you don't
have any experience with what it's like
to have to think about the fact that you
might be able to seduce a woman now you
know she might get in the mood she might
sit with you now
but then she might really regret it and
resent it the next day or a week later
or two weeks later if you are an [ __ ]
if you play the game the way this French
guy William did right like you know okay
so in this case the girl is admitting
she she consented to kissing there are
some guys in some cultures who take the
attitude oh if you open the door a crack
I'm gonna put my foot in the door and
I'm gonna push the door the rest the way
open okay well if you do that if if
that's how you play the game the game of
love you will end up in horrible
situations like William that you'll
regret for the rest of your life if
you're not a complete jackass and that
the woman will regret for the rest of
your life so don't do it don't take that
attitude don't put you for the door but
I know there are some cultures where
that's considered normal I mean in some
ways French culture French romantic
culture French dating culture it's
really toxic and horrible and screwed up
there are a lot of things I don't like
about French culture there are a lot of
things with the role of the male as
instigator I really dislike about French
culture even when it's just French women
who are like expecting me and wanting
mean to flirt with them in an issue that
I really don't like dealing with it and
French culture is different from German
culture and German culture is different
from Mexican culture and it's very
difficult to take those implicit
assumptions and make them explicit in
this case the two people have a language
barrier right the girl speaks English
the 18 year olds of Mexico from what I
see William William doesn't communicate
in English at all he seems to speak very
very little English or none at all right
so again I guess they were speaking in
broken English I he doesn't speak
Spanish
she doesn't speak French or very very
little French and so on right there were
a lot of ways in which if there were
asymmetries in the cultural assumptions
he he did not make the effort necessary
it would have been very different
difficult effort to over overcome the
language barrier overcome the cultural
barrier and make her comfortable
so she wasn't comfortable so she had an
experience or serious experiences that
she regrets and she resents for the rest
of her life and she came on the internet
and she shared her broken-hearted and
motivational experience and indeed that
experience would not hold up in court or
would not work very well in a police
report and we have to sit back to some
extent with you know detachment and
compassion and analysis and say well in
some ways that's okay and sure we can
also say in some ways that's not okay I
was in a situation years ago where a 20
year old woman met me and she did not
tell me she was 20 she told me she was
in her 20s right she referred to herself
as being in her 20s and I think in her
mid-20s she said and she was 20 to 0 we
had a very romantic evening together and
it was only one night but it went on for
do I even want to estimate something
like a 6-hour long date or more like you
know yeah it really went on all night it
was very romantic situation and then she
said to me she wanted to go back to my
apartment and again in some cultures the
it's already consent like some people
would interpret that like okay so we're
gonna say went back to my apartment um
she got into bed with me
she literally physically got into bed
with me and she literally curled up with
me or cuddled with me you could say I
would say Karl Todman cuddled okay and
then when we were in bed together she
told me that she was a virgin okay and I
decided not to have sex okay I think I
think she did want to have sex with me
in that moment you know looking back
there all these weird things with her it
was a sexy situation it was a romantic
night she was nervous I think she would
have consented that night in those
circumstances if I had kind of breast
case but you know what it's very likely
that she would have the next day
regretted it or a week later regretted
it or later for the rest of life she
would have looked at it though Wow you
know she was a virgin and she met me and
I you know I was charismatic and
whatever and I don't want her to have
that regret for the rest of my life I
don't want to have that regret from
about the rest of my life and you can
imagine how much worse it would have
been if I had been an [ __ ] like
William if I had done the stuff he had
done which included by the way I mean I
think in her account and in his account
also you know I I literally I don't even
want to describe it okay if I had done
the things that William had done with
this girl over a series of nights it
would be even worse okay there are
levels on which you can prepare yourself
to discuss these issues by caring about
kind of the academic research the
sociological legal political side of it
and some people have that kind of
background or that kind of interest
vegan gains does not there are ways in
which you can prepare yourself by having
a lot of real-life experience dating
women and getting to know these
situations and living through them
yourself and learning from the
experience of the people vegan gains
does not have any kind of experience
that along those lines he used to say
openly on the internet that
sitted himself a psychopath he
considered himself a sociopath that he
had no interest in conventional romance
and dating okay Richard you were the
wrong guy
to take on this portfolio in so many
ways and everyone can see that except
you
how is it possible that you lack the
self-awareness how is it possible that
you can't see yourself as being in the
wrong not even when you're lying about
something as blatantly obvious as
claiming that the couple is cuddled up
together in this photo when they're not
cuddle up and when you're concealing the
fact that the young woman directly
addressed what happened in this photo
what it means what it meant to her and
her experience in publicly published
comments in English that you've seen
you're lying to your audience and you're
lying to yourself to try to make your
[ __ ] narrative seen convincing
ultimately for your own sanctimonious
sense of moral superiority
[Music]